# Cookie
document.cookie

*options*
- path=/, by default current path, makes the cookie visible only under that path.
- domain=site.com, by default a cookie is visible on the current domain only. If the domain is set explicitly, the cookie becomes visible on subdomains.
- expires or max-age sets the cookie expiration time. Without them the cookie dies when the browser is closed.
- secure makes the cookie HTTPS-only.
- samesite forbids the browser to send the cookie with requests coming from outside the site. This helps to prevent XSRF attacks.

# LocalStorage, SessionStorage
localStorage
- Shared between all tabs and windows with the same origin
- Survives browser restart

sessionStorage
- Visible within a browser tab, including iframes from the same origin
-	Survives page refresh (but not tab close)

*API*
setItem(key, value) – store key/value pair.
getItem(key) – get the value by key.
removeItem(key) – remove the key with its value.
clear() – delete everything.
key(index) – get the key number index.
length – the number of stored items.
Use Object.keys to get all keys.

*Storage Events*
storage onstorage

properties:
key – the key that was changed (null if .clear() is called).
oldValue – the old value (null if the key is newly added).
newValue – the new value (null if the key is removed).
url – the url of the document where the update happened.
storageArea – either localStorage or sessionStorage object where the update happened.

# IndexedDB
- IndexedDB has a built-in mechanism of “schema versioning”, absent in server-side databases.

let openRequest = indexedDB.open(name, version)
  name – a string, the database name.
  version – a positive integer version, by default 1

The call returns openRequest object, we should listen to events on it:
  success: database is ready, there’s the “database object” in openRequest.result, we should use it for further calls.
  error: opening failed.
  upgradeneeded: database is ready, but its version is outdated (see below).
  onblocked: 

IndexedDB has a built-in mechanism of “schema versioning”, absent in server-side databases.

onsuccess:
let db = openRequest.result;
db.onversionchange
db.close

db.createObjectStore(name[, keyOptions]);
  name is the store name, e.g. "books" for books,
  keyOptions is an optional object with one of two properties:
    keyPath – a path to an object property that IndexedDB will use as the key, e.g. id.
    autoIncrement – if true, then the key for a newly stored object is generated automatically, as an ever-incrementing number.

db.objectStoreNames
.contains(name)

db.deleteObjectStore('books')

db.transaction(store[, type]);
store is a store name that the transaction is going to access, e.g. "books". Can be an array of store names if we’re going to access multiple stores.
type – a transaction type, one of:
  readonly – can only read, the default.
  readwrite – can only read and write the data, but not create/remove/alter object stores.

*Searching*
IDBKeyRange - objects that specify an acceptable “key range”:

IDBKeyRange.lowerBound(lower, [open]) means: ≥lower (or >lower if open is true)
IDBKeyRange.upperBound(upper, [open]) means: ≤upper (or <upper if open is true)
IDBKeyRange.bound(lower, upper, [lowerOpen], [upperOpen]) means: between lower and upper. If the open flags is true, the corresponding key is not included in the range.
IDBKeyRange.only(key) – a range that consists of only one key, rarely used.

- By key:
store.get(query) – search for the first value by a key or a range.
store.getAll([query], [count]) – search for all values, limit by count if given.
store.getKey(query) – search for the first key that satisfies the query, usually a range.
store.getAllKeys([query], [count]) – search for all keys that satisfy the query, usually a range, up to count if given.
store.count([query]) – get the total count of keys that satisfy the query, usually a range.

- By a field using an index
objectStore.createIndex(name, keyPath, [options]);
name – index name,
keyPath – path to the object field that the index should track (we’re going to search by that field),
option – an optional object with properties:
  unique – if true, then there may be only one object in the store with the given value at the keyPath. The index will enforce that by generating an error if we try to add a duplicate.
  multiEntry – only used if the value on keyPath is an array. In that case, by default, the index will treat the whole array as the key. But if multiEntry is true, then the index will keep a list of store objects for each value in that array. So array members become index keys.

*Deleting*
delete(query) // delete matching values by query.
clear()       // clear the storage.

*Cursor*
A cursor is a special object that traverses the object storage, given a query, and returns one key/value at a time, thus saving memory.

let request = store.openCursor(query, [direction]);
query is a key or a key range, same as for getAll.
direction is an optional argument, which order to use:
  "next" – the default, the cursor walks up from the record with the lowest key.
  "prev" – the reverse order: down from the record with the biggest key.
  "nextunique", "prevunique" – same as above, but skip records with the same key (only for cursors over indexes)

cursor methods:
advance(count) – advance the cursor count times, skipping values.
continue([key]) – advance the cursor to the next value in range matching (or immediately after key if given).

